well the threat to civilian life is all
too obvious in Gaza City and the World
Health Organization has been warning of
a deteriorating conditions leading to
infectious diseases there but there's
little relief for those who make it out
of the warart torn city to the relative
safety of the South and a lack of
electricity and medical supplies makes
the situation particularly challenging
for those with existing health
conditions since being displaced from
the jabalia refugee camp in the North
Hanah abuid has been living in a tent in
conun in the southern Gaza Strip the
55-year-old has health problems
including severe asthma which she has
been suffering from for years she needs
to use her inhaler daily and can only do
so by connecting it to a
battery there's no electricity here and
that's not the only hardship in the
camp I have severe shortness of breath
the first thing that helps me is my
device but the temperature inside the
tent is very high and it's humid and at
night I can't
sleep whenever the neighbors use a fire
to cook it affects my
breathing I used to have a monthly
appointment with the UN agency and I
used to receive monthly
treatment the camp for displaced people
is
overcrowded 27,000 people live here with
no adequate health facilities and no
electricity proper treatment is
difficult several times a day Hana has
to walk to the charging station to
recharge the battery for her
inhaler when there's not enough power in
the battery I have to go and charge it
it's a distance of half a
kilometer every two steps I have to stop
and rest I use the inhaler at least 10
times a
day maybe more than that it's a really
long distance for me I'm
tired I need
electricity I need
help there is a health care center
inside the camp but it's not equipped to
provide all services that patients
need however doctors and medical staff
here try their best to give their
patients as much care as they can with
what they have at their
disposal we received dozens of medical
cases because of environmental and water
pollution and infections that's in
addition to the many cases of chronic
diseases like Hannah who suffers from
asthma and angina and needs treatment on
a daily basis our treatment is aimed at
alleviating the severity of the chest
pain that she suffers
from along with other displaced sick
people Hanah Abu Z hopes to soon be
provided with electricity inside the
tent being able to charge and to operate
her inhaler here would make survival a
little bit
easier short while ago I spoke with
Shaina low a Jerusalem based
spokesperson for the Norwegian Refugee
Council I asked her whether 4-Hour
pauses in the fighting in the north that
we've been hearing about would provide
any relief to the people in
Gaza nothing can be done in a 4-Hour
pause first of all these pauses are
unilaterally declared in order for there
to be assurances of Civilian safety we
need all parties to this conflict to be
committing to these 4-Hour pauses but
secondly in terms of of the four hours
it's not really enough for humanitarians
to go and provide assistance many of the
people stuck in Northern Gaza are
struggling to flee because they have
mobility issues people in their families
with disabilities there's no food or
water in Northern Gaza so people are
expected to make this long Trek on foot
and it's just it's it's not safe they
when they arrive in the South they won't
be assured of their safety either this
is um forcing people out of their homes
with no assurances that they'll be able
to return When hostilities are over
amounting to forcible transfer which is
a grave breach of international
humanitarian law now the World Health
Organization is warning of disease
outbreaks in Gaza the humanitarian
situation there as we all know is dire
what are you hearing from your people
inside the
territory well we have 54 staff on the
ground in Gaza who are reporting to us
daily about what they're seeing and
experiencing conditions there are just
getting worse and worse by the day not
only with the increase in the spread of
communicable diseases and waterborne
Illness but also just finding lack of
food water medicine everything is in
short supply in Gaza those who are not
staying in designated shelters are
having a hard time finding food on the
markets and not getting uh Aid
distributions that are being sent
primarily to the shelters for the
internally displaced
people as you I'm sure you know uh Shane
Cyprus has proposed uh humanitarian sea
corridors for Aid uh to to help relieve
the humanitarian situation in Cy in uh
in Gaza do you think that could be a
viable solution for providing to
Gaza you know I don't know about all of
the technicalities and how that would
actually be facilitated but what I do
know is that there isn't really time at
this point to to plan uh on establishing
new corridors we have the Egyptian
Crossing in Rafa there are also Israeli
crossings that could and should be
opened uh and we need just a massive
influx of eight however it gets in it
needs to get in but we don't have time
to waste the amount of assistance that's
going in is in uh is is nowhere near
enough what's what the humanitarian
needs are in Gaza and on top of getting
that Aid in we need a ceasefire in order
for humanitarian organizations and the
UN to distribute that Aid to
Palestinians throughout Gaza uh and be
assured of their safety and the safety
of those seeking Aid Shaina thank you
very much for talking with us that was
Shaina loow a spokesperson for the
Norwegian Refugee Council speaking to us
from
Jerusalem